Hi, guys, welcome to this lesson, we're now going to do some hands on practice with IP addresses,
any C2, so let's head over to the console back in the console.
We have our running instance from before and you remember this one has multiple network adapters attached,
so we can say we have two network interfaces.
What I'm going to do now is go to network interfaces, select the f one adapter, and I'm just going
to detach it and click on Detach.
So I want to show you some behavior and I want to show you how things work without this attached first.
So we should be able to refresh this and find that it's gone from in use to available.
It's not there yet, so let's just give that a moment.
Now it's changed to available.
So let's come back to two.
Can I click on Refresh again?
Select, for instance.
And now we only have the one network interface.
So what I want to do is I want you to actually note down your IP addresses so we can see the private
IP address here.
Minus 10 zero one one seven seven public IP is free 84 to one free.
18.
What I'm going to do now is stop my instance.
So I just click Instant State and stop, and then that's just going to take a few moments to shut down,
my instance is now stopped.
And what I want to show you is that we still have the private IP address, but the public IP address
is no longer there.
So that's gone.
So remember, I told you that public IP addresses are dynamic and they get lost when you stop your instance.
So now let's click on start instance again and again, that will take a few minutes to start back up.
So the instance is starting up, it's running, but still initializing.
But straight away, I can see it now has a different public IP address says picks up a new IP address.
Now the reason I detach the network interface is if you have multiple agencies attached and you stop
and start your instance, then you'll find you don't pick up a public IP.
But you can have a public IP as a static IP assigned to your elastic network interface.
That's something we'll do in a moment.
The next thing I wanted to show you is the behavior when you actually reboot your instance instead of
stopping it and starting it.
So again, note down your public IP address.
Mine ends in one eight seven three seven and I'm going to go to instant state and reboot instance and
then click on Reboot.
And let's give it a few minutes.
And what we should find is that it comes back up again and it's still got the same address.
So when you stop your instance, you lose the address.
But when you restart your instance, you retain the address, and that applies to public IP addresses
only unless the clips remember they aren't static, they don't change, and private IPS are also static.
They don't change.
So my instance has rebooted and we can see it still has this address.
What I'm going to do now is go down to elastica clips and we don't have any elastic types in this region
at this stage.
Now, note that it uses region terminology here, which means the elastic types are available within
a region once you do allocate them.
I'm going to allocate an elastic IP.
And again, it chooses a network border group.
We don't need to specify anything there.
It's going to use Amazon's pool of IPv4 addresses, and then we just choose Allocate.
So we now have an address.
This is allocated to our accounts, but not used.
So remember, that means you're going to pay for it because it's not in a used state.
So what we need to do now is actually assign this to our elastic network interface.
So what we could do is associate the elastic IP address, choose either instance or network interface.
I'm going to choose network interface and then I'm going to click on this option, and it doesn't actually
show me the name of the interface, so I've actually got to find out what that is.
So what I'm going to do is open, easy to in a separate window.
And then I'm going to come down, go to network interfaces, select the network interface and then copy
the interface I.
And let's just note what that is, ends in 85.
So we might just be able to come back and let's just choose that option, and it's the first option
in the list.
And then we need to associate it with a private IP address.
And if you just click in the box there, it will bring up the private IP for that interface.
You can also choose whether this IP address is allowed to be reassigned Shiites, and so we might want
to reassess yet it.
So let's choose that option and then click on Associate.
So now the elastic IP is associated to the Elastic Network interface.
So if you go down to network interfaces and let's just give it a refresh as well to make sure that we
can see what we need to say and then come down.
And sure enough, we have a public IP and we can see it's an elastic IP address.
Great.
So we have that's what I want to do now is associate it back to my instance.
So I'm going to click on Detach here because sometimes the console gets a bit confused.
It's not actually attached to anything we can scroll across and it says available, we click on Detach.
Choose detach hair.
It says that there is no interface attachment, and then I'm expecting now that when I go back and try
and do it again, sure enough, I can attach it.
So let's choose an instance and then click on Attach.
So now let's go back to our instance, and it will give it a quick refresh here.
I'm going to clear away these information boxes from the top.
Choose my instance, and under networking, we should find we have the interface if one and it has a
public IP.
Now the key difference now is if I stop this instance and then started again, what we should find is
we're going to lose the public IP associated with if zero interface.
But because we have an elastic interface on if one, that interface should still have an IP address.
So let's stop this instance shouldn't take a minute now, and then we're going to reboot it again as
soon as it stopped.
So my instant stop successfully, I started it again and under networking, I can see that we've lost
the public IP associated with f zero.
But under network interfaces, we still have the public IP associated with f one.
And that's because that's an elastic IP.
So it's static.
So what if we now launch a new instance?
So that are clear these boxes.
Let's launch a new EC2 instance.
And we're going to put it into a different availability zone.
So let's choose the same settings for the instance type and the am-I choose the same VPC, but we're
going to choose the public one b subnet instead.
Click on Next, click through.
We don't need to change anything else.
Choose web access and we'll launch this instance.
So what I want to do now is see if I can really satiate the elastic IP with a different instance.
So maybe my existing instance files for some reason.
So let's terminate this instance.
So that one has failed.
And what we need to do is we've got traffic that's going to the elastic IP address.
So we want to be able to associate that elastic IP address to another instance.
And in this case, I want to do it into a different availability zone.
So let's have a look.
We've now got a second instance running.
So what we can do is we can't re associate the network.
It's out to remember because it's actually within the wrong availability zone.
It's in the public one availability zone, but the elastic IP can be associated.
So let's choose actions that associate address and we have to select the address pair combination here
and disassociate.
And that should now release all elastic IP address.
So let's come down to the last two.
We can see we have an elastic IP address still, and it's not associated.
So what we can do now is go to actions associate elastic IP address.
We're going to choose instance, and we only have one running instance because we terminated other instance.
And then we're going to assign it to the instance and click on Associate.
Now I didn't specify the private IP, but it only has one, so it's automatically taken care of that
for me.
So now if we go back up two instances, we've got this new instance that still initializing and it should
now have an elastic IP address.
So let's go to networking.
Network interfaces come down and we can see it has an allocated IPv4 address, which is an IP.
So that's how we can reassess Shiite elastic types.
That's all I wanted to show you in this particular lesson.
What I'm going to do is terminate my instance and then we're going to go and clean a couple of things
up so we can come down to network interfaces.
We can find if one choose actions and delete and then choose delete.
Now this one will be deleted.
This is the if zero, for the instance, we've just terminated, so that should be gone very soon on
its own.
So don't worry about that one.
Then we got a last eclipse, and if we just refresh just to make sure that this has been disassociated,
well, it's still terminating.
So I'm going to do it manually.
Let's just disassociate this address.
Great.
It's now not attached, which means I can release the elastic IP and then I'm not going to pay for it
because it's not attached to anything.
So that's it for this lesson.
Hope you enjoyed that, and I'll see you in the next lesson.